Q-1. Write an SQL query to fetch “FIRST_NAME” from Worker table using the alias name as <WORKER_NAME>.

Q-2. Write an SQL query to fetch “FIRST_NAME” from Worker table in upper case.

Q-3. Write an SQL query to fetch unique values of DEPARTMENT from Worker table.

Q-4. Write an SQL query to print the first three characters of  FIRST_NAME from Worker table.

Q-5. Write an SQL query to find the position of the alphabet (‘u’) in the first name column ‘Muhammad Nadeem’ from Worker table.

Q-6. Write an SQL query to print the FIRST_NAME from Worker table after removing white spaces from the right side.

Q-7. Write an SQL query to print the DEPARTMENT from Worker table after removing white spaces from the left side.

Q-8. Write an SQL query that fetches the unique values of DEPARTMENT from Worker table and prints its length.

Q-9. Write an SQL query to print the FIRST_NAME from Worker table after replacing ‘a’ with ‘A’.

Q-10. Write an SQL query to print the FIRST_NAME and LAST_NAME from Worker table into a single column COMPLETE_NAME. A space char should separate them.

Q-11. Write an SQL query to print all Worker details from the Worker table order by FIRST_NAME Ascending.

Q-12. Write an SQL query to print all Worker details from the Worker table order by FIRST_NAME Ascending and DEPARTMENT Descending.

Q-13. Write an SQL query to print details for Workers with the first name as “Muhammad Nadeem” and “Muhammad Faheem” from Worker table.

Q-14. Write an SQL query to print details of workers excluding first names, “Muhammad Nadeem” and “Muhammad Faheem” from Worker table.

Q-15. Write an SQL query to print details of Workers with DEPARTMENT name as “CS”.

Q-16. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers whose FIRST_NAME contains ‘a’.

Q-17. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers whose FIRST_NAME ends with ‘a’.

Q-18. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers whose FIRST_NAME ends with ‘h’ and contains six alphabets.

Q-19. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers whose SALARY lies between 100000 and 500000.

Q-20. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers who have joined in Feb’2014.

Q-21. Write an SQL query to fetch the count of employees working in the department ‘CS’.

Q-22. Write an SQL query to fetch worker names with salaries >= 50000 and <= 100000.

Q-23. Write an SQL query to fetch the no. of workers for each department in the descending order.

Q-24. Write an SQL query to print details of the Workers who are also Managers.

Q-25. Write an SQL query to fetch duplicate records having matching data in some fields of a table.

Q-26. Write an SQL query to show only odd rows from a table.

Q-27. Write an SQL query to show only even rows from a table.

28 NA


Q-29. Write an SQL query to fetch intersecting records of two tables.

Q-30. Write an SQL query to show records from one table that another table does not have.

Q-31. Write an SQL query to show the current date.

Q-32. Write an SQL query to show the top n (say 10) records of a table.

33 NA

34 NA

Q-35. Write an SQL query to fetch the list of employees with the same salary.

Q-36. Write an SQL query to show the second highest salary from a table.

Q-37. Write an SQL query to show one row twice in results from a table.

Q-38. Write an SQL query to fetch intersecting records of two tables.

Q-39. Write an SQL query to fetch the first 50% records from a table.

Q-40. Write an SQL query to fetch the departments that have less than five people in it.

Q-41. Write an SQL query to show all departments along with the number of people in there.

Q-42. Write an SQL query to show the last record from a table.

Q-43. Write an SQL query to fetch the first row of a table.

Q-44. Write an SQL query to fetch the last five records from a table.

Q-45. Write an SQL query to print the name of employees having the highest salary in each department.

Q-46. Write an SQL query to fetch three max salaries from a table.

Q-47. Write an SQL query to fetch three min salaries from a table.

Q-48. Write an SQL query to fetch nth max salaries from a table.

Q-49. Write an SQL query to fetch departments along with the total salaries paid for each of them.

Q-50. Write an SQL query to fetch the names of workers who earn the highest salary.





