----------------------- Page 1-----------------------

                                                                                                    
  
  
  
  

                                                                                                             
  

                                           House # DK-314,Street #8B, Near Gulbagh General Strore  
                                                        Dhok Kashmerian, Rwalpindi  
                                                                    Mobile:+92.344.8534083  
                                                             Email: ghulamjaffar110@gmail.com  
  
  
OBJECTIVE  

To seek a challenging and motivating career that  provides opportunity to work  in a challenging,  motivating  
and dynamic environment. That foster  & rewards  positive attitude,  proactive work style and shared goals  
that will effectively utilize my communication,  leadership,  professional, organizational and technical skills.  
  
  
ACADEMIC QUA LIFICATION:  
  
MS                                  MS in Information Security (MSIS)                                                               
                                    National University of Science and Technology (NUST) Islamabad  
                                     
Bachelors                           Bachelors in Computer Sciences (BCS)  
                                    National University FAST Islamabad (2006 – 2010).                                               

H.S.S.C                             Higher Secondary School Certificate   
                                    FSc (2004 to 2006)                                                                              
                                                                                          
S.S.C                               Secondary School Certificate  
                                    Metric (2004)                                                                                   
  
  
TEACHING/PRESENTATION EXPERIENCE:  
  
I have one semester teaching experience in BZU (DG Khan Campus). It increase may confidence to communicate with   
other in best way.      
  
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:  
  
    11Values Pvt Ltd,  Rawalpindi,  Pakistan  
    Dates:  June 2014 –  Present  
    Job Title:  Senior Software  Engineer (Unity 3D)  
  
  
    NimbleGeeks Pvt Ltd,  Islamabad,  Pakistan  
    Dates:  June 2010 – Jan 2014  
    Job Title:  Software  Engineer  
      
    Strengthening Participatory Organization (SPO)  Data Base, NGO Pakistan   
    Dates:  Jan 2010 - June 2010  
    Job Title:   Developer  
  
PROJECTS:  
  
    Wing of Invasion (Game)  
    Type / Completed On:  Professional /  Present  
    I am working as software engineer on Wing of Invasion,  project coordinator and application architect in  
     development of Wing of Invasion. Wing of Invasion is fully functional and multi-platform game with online  
     purchasing.   
      
    Technologies:                Unity 3D Pro, Sketch Up, Blender, Unity Assets Store.  
    Role:                           Software Engineer  
    Responsibilities:               Creating game mechanics, creating models in blender and rigging it, compatibility  
     with multiple platforms.  

----------------------- Page 2-----------------------

  
  Survival Island (Game)  
  Type / Completed On:  Professional / July 2014  
I am working as software engineer on Survival Island,  project coordinator and application architect in  
 development of Survival Island. Survival Island is fully functional and multi-platform game with add support.   
  
Technologies:              Unity 3D Pro, Sketch Up, Blender, Unity Assets Store.  
Role:                         Software Engineer  
Responsibilities:             Creating game mechanics, creating models in blender and rigging it, compatibility  
 with multiple platforms. You have to complete different tasks to survive on island.  
  
  Save the Baby (Game)  
  Type / Completed On:  Professional /  May 2014  
I am working as software engineer on Save the Baby,  project coordinator and application architect in  
 development of Save the Baby. Save the Baby is fully functional and multi-platform game with add support.   
  
Technologies:              Unity 3D Pro, Sketch Up, Blender, Unity Assets Store.  
Role:                         Software Engineer  
Responsibilities:             Creating game mechanics, creating models in blender and rigging it, compatibility  
 with multiple platforms. You have to catch baby to save which will fall from building which have caught   
the fire.  
  
  
  
  Visions, USA http://www.myvisionslive.com  
  Type / Completed On:  Professional / Jan 2014  
I am working as software engineer,  project coordinator and application architect in development of Visions  
 online web base solution. Visions  is medical HER which fulfill all HL7 standards. It has different modules like   
Financials, Appointment, E-claims, E-Commerce and Patient History etc.   
Technologies:              ASP.NET using C#, SQL Server 2008, Visual Studio 2008, Java Script, XML,  
                           Mirth Connect  
Role:                         Software Engineer  
Responsibilities:             Creating database design develops procedures, Reports, CSS/HTML validation.  
                               HL7 test case requirement gathering, Mirth connect HL7 interfacing.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  EyeBase, USA http://www.visioncare.net  
  Type / Completed On:  Professional / April 3013  
I worked as software engineer  in development of  EyeBase desk top version.  EyeBase is medical EHR and certified  
by  Drummond  Inc in USA.  Ever  use of  EyeBase in USA will get 44000$ as incentive from US government.  
  
  
  
Technologies:                  XML, Microsoft Access, Mirth Connect  
Role:                         Team Lead / Software Engineer  
Responsibilities:             Analysis of existing desktop application, database design, develops procedures,   
                              Develop core function accordance with HL7, HL7 test cases validation.  
                                
  Strengthening Participatory Organization (SPO)  Data Base, NGO Pakistan http://www.spopk.org   
  Type / Completed On:  Professional / January 2010  
It was paid project we take from Strengthening Participatory Organization and maintain the data of  
migrated people in NWFP.  
Technologies:                  Microsoft Access,  
Role:                         Developer  
  

----------------------- Page 3-----------------------

      
      
    Responsibilities:                Analysis of business requirement of company, database design, develops procedures  
                                     creates reports.  

    Location based Mobile Application  
    Type / Completed On: Stand Alone /  May 2010  
    LBMA have different  module  
    1:  Current  Position of  User  
    2:  Finding Position of your  Friend  
    3: Auto Observer  
    4: Auto Profile Setting.  
    We are implementing it  in Google Android platform  
  
    Technologies:                     Android, Google map  
    Role:                            Team Lead  
    Responsibilities:                Lead the project and coordination, testing the business functions   
  
QUA LIFICATION / SKILLS:  
  
      Skill Title  
  
  
      -3 years of comprehensive experience in Software Development, Designing and testing  
      -Well capable of developing Business Objects Commercial Applications.   
      Implementation according with NIST and FIPS standards  
      -Sound knowledge of Meaningful Use 2014 test cases and HL7 standards  
      implementation  
      -Sound knowledge of  Object  Oriented Programming  
      -Strong analytical and problem solving skills.  
      -Expert  in Debugging,  legacy systems and solving of  problems of  large and complex     
      applications.  
      -Team lead/Management and ability to work in stress environment  
      -Working experience in - C#, Asp.Net, SQL Server, Unity 3D, Android, JSON, VB.net,  
      Java, C++, Turbo C, VB6. -  MS Access, XML, JavaScript.  
      - Pen testing BackTrack 5 R3, Zenmap, Cryptographic module       
  
ACHIEVEMENT / AWARDS:  
  
    Fully  Funded Outreach Scholarship  
    Issued by:  Ministry of  IT & RD during 2006-2010  
    Our  LBMA Project got  1st, 2nd, 3rd Position in Software Competition  
    Issued by:  Directorate of Science & Technology NWFP /  Respectively 29th January, 3rd March, and  
    4th March 2010.  
  
  
  
  
  
LANGUAGES:  
  
    English, Urdu, Punjabi, Saraiki  
      
  
    
HOBBIES / ACTIVITIES:  
  
    Web Surfing  
  
    Poetry  
  
    Novel Reading  
    Note: References will be provided on request  
